4/1/2022
New notes and format
1. no more personal journal style notes
thats it.

Forgot to update notes.

Goal | implement upgrade system: Complete
New Goal | make the upgrade UI look good: partialy coplete
New Goal | work on boss rounds

Progress:
    all early upgrades completed
        Health
            increase health by one
        Damage
            increase damage by one // will be noticable when enemy round scaling is implemented
        Firerate
            decrease firerate by 100 up 500 // later on the weapon will switch to a laser
    boss round check
    new music for game and game over
    implemented boss music
Inprogress:
    making upgrade UI better
        upgrade icons need to be added
        test upgrade frame needs to be removed
        name and price need to be resized and relocated
    boss round machanics
        round timer terning into a timelimit
        normal enemies don't spawn
        bosses will be placed in a seperate boss group
        upgrades will be discounted by half

4/2/2022
    Start working on boss mechanics
    fix upgrade UI
    get ready for bosses

4/4/2022
I'm not too good with updating notes.
Upgrades have been completed; Health, Damage, and Firerate have been completly implemented into the gamme.

Upgrade classification
    Minor upgrades - Common upgrades that can be upgraded infinitly. i.e Health and Damage
    Major upgrades - uncommon upgrades that can be upgraded a set number of times. I.e Firerate
    Master upgrades - Rare upgrades that can only be upgraded once.


Future plans for the upgrades - Once leader boards are added
    1. Deluexgrades - minor upgrades have a rare chance to appear as Deluexgrades which give 3 times the state for 1lv.
    2. more upgrades
        1. Master Ship Shield installer - unlocks ship shield specific upgrades. +1 to shield
            a. Minor Shield Cell - addes 1 cell to the ship and are very exspensive
            b. Major Sheild Recharge - decreases the sheild recharge rate to at least 3 seconds
        2. Master Dodge - unlocks the ability to dash in four directions.
        3. Major bullet speed - increases bullet speed until it hits max which will make the gun a laser.
    3. different upgrade frames for all upgrade classes.

Next part - bosses
Goal - 3 bosses
    1. Mothership / easy
    2. Battleship / difficult
    3. Oculus / Hard - first one I'm doing
Oculus is the most important boss in the game (from easy to very-hard) being the reason ships can change z posistions.
Oculus will be a hard boss to make because it spawns minions a the start of the round that orbit from it's sides and it's ability to attack the player, it's basicly both other bosses combined.
creating minion spawn at the beginng of the round I'll make a while loop that count up to a certain number before switching off
making the boss's one attack will be the most difficult part.
    1. the boss would need to be able to store it's own attack cycle, attack charge, and attack durration. This also means that I need to make a start time for each of the timers
    2. The boss uses a laser attack that displays a reticle on screeen which enemies curretly don't have so I need to add that to.

To make this easier to make, I'll need to redo the enemy classes
    1. make a master enemy class that has all of the basic funtiality mostly movement
    2. makae a class for each of the enemies so 3 enemies for now
    3. make a class for each projectile so 2 classes
    4. give all the rangers a shoot function
    5. allow the enemies to add sprite into groups, put bullets into the enemy group

other things I need to do.
    1. remove the shoot funtion from the game itself, this will be placed into the idiviual enemy
    2. create 3 enemy groups; enemygroup, projectileGroup, and bossGroup
        This will make it easier to make collison checks so the collison only checks the projectiles and not all the enemies which only 3 kinds of enemies can realy get near the player